world's not for me
because I don't know what I'm doing here
anymore I feel nothing
I think that that's the hardest part I
haven't really spoke about this
it's um
yeah I'll just say it I mean
the man behind her favorite hits music
Superstar Grammy Award winner we're just
getting started you have no idea what is
the desire to be on stage come from
Michael Jackson I wanted to make music
art with Melody it was where I felt an
escape from my head
14 year old looking 12 shots of vodka
you know on a school night by myself
running from the police and doing drugs
that never stopped
we were in our home and
home and I'm there I'm high her period
was laid went got other pregnancy test
and I'm just like
praying
let this be a negative pregnancy test
I'm not ready to give up the drugs
and then I heard the tears I remember
walking outside and I just started
bawling because I couldn't feel any sort
of happiness and I knew what that meant
if you were to go back and be able to
have a conversation now with young Ben
at 14 years old before that first drink
what would you say
it's a great question it's going to
cause way more pain than good but at the
same time
would you like to go for dinner with me
and my guests here on the diver CEO we
are holding dinner parties all around
the world over the coming months and our
subscribers on this YouTube channel are
invited we're inviting 20 subscribers to
every dinner so if you'd like to come
for dinner with me and my guests here on
the Diary of a CEO I have a favor to ask
you all you've got to do is hit the
Subscribe button and I hope to see you
at dinner somewhere around the world
very soon
oh
[Music]
when I when I think about people's lives
I
think from doing this podcast this has
become more sort of clear to me I see
their lives as like a series of dots you
know like or a series of dominoes that
fell to lead them to where they are
today and if you go back to the very
start of that that series of dots to
understand the most influential moments
or things that
um inspired
you to become the person you are today
in every sense of the word what are
those first dots those first experiences
that I need to know in order to
understand you
my first dots my first dots I think
would be
listening to the radio
outside summer time
next door neighbor's yard
and being introduced to music
and
loving music Falling in Love That Summer
I believe I was six years old and you
know I had an older neighbor who was
maybe four or five years older than me
and he had a bunch of
um
you know my best friend was next door he
was five years older than us it was like
a collection of of kids in the
neighborhood and I remember that summer
being this magical introduction to
art to music to listening to the radio
and falling in love with with Melody
with sounds that was my first that was
my first Dot and then my next dot
shortly after that was falling in love
with hip-hop music at the age of seven
and
those were the first two dots that
really set me on a path a trajectory and
this desire to be on a stage
people can listen to music have that
summertime experience they can listen to
rap music but not have the desire to be
on stage where does the desire to be on
stage come from Michael Jackson
I think it was I think it was MJ I think
that
you know like everyone else that grew up
in the in the 80s there was something
about
watching Michael Jackson command a stage
and what he did with his body what he
did with his feet the moonwalk obviously
but everything about it the Perfection
the timing the the nuanced moves that he
had the way that he commanded the crowd
there was a curiosity around what is
that
I'm not sure but I want to try and an
inner performer was born
in my household at the age of seven and
uh everyone that came into my house was
subjected to whatever show I was putting
on that day and I just wanted to you
know get on the kitchen counter and show
people that like you know I have a show
for you guys come watch
parents home life
parents
um
yeah they were
they were super encouraging you know my
mom was my biggest cheerleader my
biggest Advocate someone that was always
in my corner that was like you can do it
you got this
and I just believed her
even when I shouldn't have
and
um those years were very
were very crucial in my development of
gaining confidence in in who I was as a
person and as an artist
School you you got kicked out of school
dropped out of school around 14 15. yeah
no I didn't get kicked out I was close
to getting kicked out
um probably should have got kicked out I
wasn't going to school much but I went
to a small school and up until uh High
School
and it was very
communal
um you know parents volunteered it was
this alternative creative school and
then ninth grade hit
and that is when
drugs and alcohol hit as well and I had
freedom it was like you know the school
was like 1600 kids or 2 000 kids or
something and for the first time I
wasn't being watched I could skip class
um the teachers didn't notice if I was
there or not or they didn't call my
parents and
um there was this level of Freedom so
there was that period of of a year year
and a half where
um I went from kind of a b student to
uh damn near getting kicked out for for
failing so didn't last long I got back
on track and um you know completed high
school with I think I closed out with a
3.8 or 4.0 my last year of high school
um and what did you want to do when you
were an adult like if I lost 14 15 year
old you know what are you going to be
when you grow up would you have told me
I wanted to rap you believed that you
could get there you know
I didn't know if I could or not but it
wasn't it 14 or 15 I don't think I would
have necessarily had the confidence like
this is going to be the path but by the
time that I hit around 20 years old
it was like this is
this is possible 22 it was like this is
even more possible 23 but the problem
was that I kept having
um you know it was just it was always
like I could make this a reality if I
can just get sober
and I couldn't get sober so it was this
like I need to get sober I need to get
clean so I can make music that's
meaningful that's impactful because once
I got high it was like the veil was over
my eyes I had no connection anymore to
the music and um it was kind of always
that balance but I felt in my heart if I
can get clean I can make
enough music that will resonate with
people that might be able to pay some of
these bills when people think about
I built a business with my business
partner for many many years and
throughout that process he was and he's
been on the show before he he was
addicted to alcohol and I didn't know
what it was so we were living in the
same house together I'd go downstairs at
three at 3am in the morning and I'd find
him in the laundry room drinking from a
bottle yeah and I'd put him back in bed
and then you know 5am I hear a sound
he's managed to get a another bottle of
alcohol and his bed sheets are covered
in this red wine and I just thought you
know in my naivety this is someone that
just likes alcohol right and no one had
taught me this concept of addiction the
disease of addiction I had no idea what
it was so it wasn't until things
escalated even further that there was
almost an intervention moment where we
literally met one one evening because
they've been an incident caused a lot of
damage and it was basically like an
ultimatum moment yeah then I went on the
Journey of understanding what addiction
was and the disease of addiction as you
describe it
when Jay spoke to you on Jay's podcast
I could see he was doing a similar thing
to what I was doing when I was
researching your story which was like
trying to understand the cause of it and
I'm not even sure if that's the right
question
do you know what I mean like we're all
searching for a cause yeah
and and so I wanted to ask the question
to you like what is in your view
how did that relationship with drugs and
alcohol come to be
you know I think that for me it was the
first time in my life
where I felt an escape
from my head it was like what was going
on in your head I don't even know but I
just felt to reprieve I felt this like
this Elation this moment of like all of
these thoughts in my head
are gone and I am here with this bottle
and no one's around and I get to be a
secret and I get to hide this and I feel
free I feel free from whatever it was in
that you know 14 year old
puberty hormonal teenager that was going
on in my life it was like
quiet and um
I had the allergy from the very
beginning it was
you know
One Shot Two Shot what does four feel
like what does eight feel like and all
of a sudden I'm taking 12 shots of vodka
um you know on a school night by myself
hopping on the bus and you know running
from the police and it was a crazy first
time drinking alcohol that never stopped
for me every time pretty much that I
drank turned into a Crazy Event like
that
um but I don't know I don't know exactly
at the time what I was what I wanted to
escape from I think that there was just
that
changing reality
there was that oh I like to be able to
to skew what's in front of me and to
silence the minds
from your from going through the process
of recovery and rehab and all those
things you've met a lot of other people
that have struggled with the disease of
addiction has any of that process taught
you anything about your own relationship
or the causal factors of your own
relationship with
substances and alcohol
you know I think that there's through
lines absolutely and I think that for a
a lot of us that have the disease of
addiction there's trauma there's
childhood trauma there's you know if the
disease kicks in later in life maybe
that trauma came into play later but I
think that there is a through line in
what I have seen in others
um and that's you know some sort of
thing that we're we're holding on to or
a secret or you know something that
happened to us in life that
um drugs and alcohol kind of numbs and
takes away quells that
that inner guilt that inner shame
whatever it might be I think that
there's a through line between
us addicts and in our past and then I
think also there's people that just have
the allergy and maybe it's maybe it's
not related to trauma at all maybe we're
not predisposed or maybe we are
predisposed It's a combination I don't
know but I do see that um a lot of
people are trying to escape
it's a difficult thing especially for
the um the people around that individual
like to because you know going back to
my own example with my best friend and
business partner I didn't have the tools
to know how to be there right you know
and I also didn't have the information
to understand what I was dealing with
like if you'd asked me when I was 25
like what was going on with my friend I
just loves to get drunk right it's part
of the culture yeah and then when you
meet what we do is 25 year olds yeah
um
if if you were to give advice on like
how those around the individual who is
struggling with the disease of addiction
can be there or what their role is
supposed to be or what would you what
would you say what advice would you have
given me at 25 years old you know I
think that there's
there's resources that we have there's
Al-Anon where if you have someone that
it's a 12-step program for people that
have loved ones or friends or whatever
that are going through the disease of
addiction and how to show up and you
literally they're in the basements of
churches all over the world or you know
community centers or wherever they're
free and there's people that are going
through the same common struggle of how
do we show up
in an authentic way and help
save this person's life that we love
um because we don't have the information
you know for so many of us I think that
there's this notion of just stop why
don't they just stop why are they
hurting themselves how could they do
this to me we make it about us right
like how could they do this to me how
could they lie to me how could they go
out and say that they were going to quit
and then keep going why don't they see
who they turn into just stop
just stopping
doesn't work
there needs to be a support system there
are needs for for the attic we need
12-step meetings we need therapy we need
you know to evaluate our mental health
we need to work the steps we need a
sponsor we need a community of people
that share our very same struggle so we
can see ourselves and experience the
therapeutic value of one addict helping
another that is our piece but until we
get there just stopping is almost
impossible
and sometimes it takes you know hitting
those really low points of of getting
arrested or getting Court mandated to go
to you know 12-step meetings but on the
others the other side of it
here you are with your friend
and you have no idea how to show up
authentically in that moment and
actually really come from a place of
love and you're angry and you're so
angry right you're pissed you don't know
how to deal with that emotion and you
realize that once you go to this meeting
these meetings
that just like the addict we're
powerless over drugs and alcohol you're
powerless over your friend
and there are things that you can do to
help
there's probably things that you can do
to maybe hurt but overall
they have to be in enough pain that they
want to change
and you're not going to be the Catalyst
and you can put them in I've watched it
time and time again of people with the
best intentions that end up enabling
that end up you know fueling the fire
that end up trying to help but not
having the tools themselves and I think
that Al-Anon is the best easiest free
way to even if you want to go to a
meeting or two to get some skill sets
some language and to realize that
um at the end of it
come from your heart and lead the
expectations aside because this is their
Journey at the end of the day
the moment that I described this moment
where we had kind of like an
intervention with my best friend and it
was really the day we met on a Sunday in
an office after the Saturday before he'd
got very very drunk and caused a lot of
problems with team members
he's talked about this like doing things
in public going on someone's table next
to the restaurant um the table next to
his at the restaurant he was at with our
team grabbing their alcohol off the
table and doing all these crazy things
and getting kicked out of the restaurant
it was a surrendering the day after and
you used that word before yeah we met in
the office and it was the first time
I came with anger
and it was the first time
he told me how he felt yeah
and he cried in front of me
and that was and then my anger
immediately evaporates because it's the
first time I've heard that this
individual is suffering with something
right and there's a pain and that was
the day that was the the day he became
sober went to therapy went on that
journey and he's been sober for eight
years since then but it was that
surrendering moment it was that like him
reaching out and saying like I need help
in me actually like listening yes
you see him for what he is in that
moment which is hurting which is an
immense pain
he doesn't want to be like that he feels
the guilt and shame of his actions he's
tried to start and and stop and go back
and forth and things that okay maybe
it's just hard alcohol or or dark
alcohol or maybe it's beer or maybe it's
the combination of this drug he's tried
everything and he's hurting and he
doesn't know how to stop he doesn't have
the tools and I think that that
surrender that you talk about is one of
the most beautiful moments for an addict
or an alcoholic is like waving the White
Flag we think about surrender is is a
weakness right like you don't surrender
you keep fighting you keep going no with
this disease the greatest thing that we
can do is surrender is to snitch on
ourselves is to wave that white flag is
to let other people know that we are
struggling on our own internally that
this is something is broken and I have
no idea how to get out of this and um
and what did that do when he was able to
be human to you you were like okay now I
can come from a place of love because
I'm pissed off about what you do last
night and I'm pissed off that you've
done X Y and Z and that we've had this
conversation or whatever the situation
is
um
and you know you ask what can you do as
a 25 year old friend
coming from a place of love and I think
compassion and even if it's not you know
empathy isn't possible because that's
not what you're going through I think
that that compassion is
is what makes people feel you know what
they actually care about me it's not
just like I'm pissing them off but they
actually care and
you know just kind of like letting go of
our own expectations of people and
meeting them where they're at
is always
you know the best place to show up from
when was your moment of surrender
God I've had many I think my
my biggest moment of surrender I was 25
or 26 years old 25 I think and
I had been
on oxycontin for you know I don't know a
couple weeks couple a month and it
caught up really quickly in terms of my
addiction to the point that you know
I lost a ton of weight I'm you know I'm
scratching I just was like I was dope
sick and I had never really experienced
that before
um all the happiness any serotonin was
gone
it was
one of those moments of I remember like
walking outside and it was summertime in
Seattle which is like most beautiful
place in the world in the summer and I
remember walking outside on a tank top
and I'm like you know I just started
bawling being outside because I couldn't
feel any sort of happiness it was gone
it was like it had evaporated and um
and I didn't really want to be here
anymore like there was that moment it
was like there was no real suicidal
um ideation or plan
but it was just this like
maybe this world's not for me
because I don't know what I'm doing here
anymore
I feel nothing I feel nothing
um except deep deep grief and the
obsession to get more
and it was shortly after that my um
you know I went to a family function and
I'm trying to you know piece it together
and just be presentable and just get
through it and my Dad pulled me aside
and
um
you know I think my mom had asked him to
talk to me
because you know we didn't
grow up having too many heart-to-hearts
it was mostly with my mom but my mom I
think urged him to do it he pulled me
aside and just asked me are you happy
and um
that was my surrender moment I kind of
lied to him
I couldn't lie to myself
it was
a very clear answer of absolutely not I
am
so broken
I am
I don't even know what happy is anymore
and um
he asked me to go to rehab
said that he would pay for it
and
immediately I wasn't ready for that
surrender though you know in that moment
I'm like no no I I've heard about these
12-step meetings I'll go to those I know
someone that goes and um he came back
and was like I think that it would be
really good for you to have
these 28 days to just focus on yourself
and of course there's always the like
well I can't go because if this is
happening and this is how you know we're
not worried about those things happening
when we're risking Our Lives doing drugs
or copious amounts of drinking we're
just worried about it when it's like now
we need to go take care of ourselves
and it's like the the addict Anthem is
like well let me just get my life
together and then I can go to rehab it's
not really how it works it's more like
um you know we come in very
you know we're at our worst no one goes
to rehab and they're like you know
life's okay but I think I need some
rehab no people come in when they are at
their bottom and I was at I was at mine
and just saying yes to him that day on
the porch saying that I would go was my
surrender moment it was my white flag
and it was
the best decision I ever made in my life
hands down
have you ever reflected on
that crossroads moment and if you'd
chosen to go the other way and you'd
said to your dad maybe yes I am happy
when he asked at that family get
together or when he said go to rehab
you'd said no
I think there's a good chance I could be
dead
um really absolutely and that was close
at that time
I've been you know
this disease
we think of um
we think we're so far away from Death
you know that we're Immortal and that it
won't happen to us and
um
I think I'm probably in my
30s in terms of how many people I know
that have died from the disease of
addiction
um you know when I wrote my first
song about
the disease of addiction called other
side when I got out of rehab
um maybe in 2009
I had known three people
so we've gone up by probably around 25
30 people since then
um I'm not naive to how quickly it can
happen
and
taking into account fentanyl as well
right now and what's going on with
street drugs
it's it's rampant we are we are facing
an epidemic right now around the world
but particularly in America I don't know
how it is over here but I think this
fentanyl is no joke it's killing people
um they think they're getting one drug
they're getting another drug and
the nature of the disease it is out to
kill us that is its sole purpose and
um
yeah I'd be dead
I think so
you've been so successful throughout
your career with your music and it's
it's it's an interesting hearing those
stories of the struggle and the ups and
the downs and the battle with that and
then looking at your your catalog in
terms of music and I was it was crazy I
was going through I was going through
all your songs going back through the
through the years and I'm looking at the
numbers on these [__] records and I'm
thinking [__] 1.4 billion views
500 million views 500 200 million views
and huge huge numbers the records are
they feel Timeless when I listen to them
um there's a real real real talent there
which you know when I think about the
struggle you've been through then I look
at the back catalog of the work you've
produced from an artistic standpoint I'm
asking myself what's the relationship
here like has has that has your
struggles played into the music or has
your struggles sort of taken away from
the music and your potential like what
is the relationship and what is what has
music been throughout that struggle to
you
it's a great question and it's honestly
a question that I think about too like
I've
I've kind of asked myself that same
question in the last 48 hours
I don't know if I have an answer
I believe that it's all panned out the
way that it's supposed to be has drugs
and alcohol affected me being prolific
absolutely it's taken away work ethic in
moments it's taken away
um Seasons years of of time where I
could have been focused where I could
have been building momentum but instead
I chose the path of
um
instant gratification
and we were talking about this last
night there's one of my mentors and ogs
in my 12-step program are one of them
um
you know her name was Rita and
she had this business card that she used
to give out to people and it said that
her greatest regret in life is trading
in what she wanted
in the bigger picture
for what she wanted in that moment and I
always think about my life in that way
of is this what I want for the greater
good for my story to be or am I acting
at a place of Desire am I acting at a
place of wanting to change the way that
I feel right now knowing that that will
hinder me that's not really what I want
what place am I coming from
and weighing those
and I think for a lot of my life it was
no I want this right now and
that oftentimes is a destructive pattern
whether it was sex or with drugs or you
know whatever
um of trading in what I truly wanted
what I truly believe to be the truth
because my truth is that I am the best
version of myself when I am clear when I
am
silent enough to be able to be a conduit
to something that is outside of my
understanding I couldn't even put it
into words it's that magic that happens
in the studio where all of a sudden
you're almost removed from the pen
that's writing the song and
um you know I choose to call it God but
that God presence that being is is
absolutely moving through through me
I've never been able to feel that
um
without a spiritual practice music has
always been a spiritual practice for me
but
I think that it's made me who I am I've
made tons of mistakes and since I've
been famous I made tons of mistakes that
were that were you know influenced by
the drugs that I was doing or you know
the
the positions that I got myself in but
those also turned into learning moments
they turned into maybe a song or maybe a
conversation or maybe the thing that I
needed to share about in a 12-step
meeting that saved someone's life I
don't know I don't know but I know that
um I'm here I know that I'm here for a
reason I know that my catalog
um is something that I'm super proud of
and you know beyond the numbers it's
like
last night driving from Birmingham into
London
I listened to
Ben my new album
I hadn't had that really that moment for
a while of listening to my album and its
entirety because you're working so hard
on it there's so many nuanced things
it's like you can't even just enjoy it
and I sat in the car and I listened to
it all the way through and um
it's the best feeling to be like you
know what I I worked really hard on
something and um
in all of these little moments all of
these mistakes all of this pain
eventually finds its way
into purpose
and I think that that's an i an artist
highest form is to be able to take pain
and repurpose it into purpose
what is giving you that or like you
describe that moment in the studio where
you're clear and you're almost
channeling something you'll hire
creativity whatever that is
have you been able to figure out what it
is that causes those moments of of
clarity and and focus and stability and
then on the other side of the coin what
causes the the chaos in our lives the
instability is there any causal factors
yes
for me
it is
exercise
getting outside it's like actually
cardio
it is
being of service to other people
it is a spiritual practice
it is coming from Faith rather than fear
it is thinking about ourselves less and
others more
it is being still in the studio not
thinking about what is this going to do
for the world but just actually being
present
and removing the ego
which is what all of those things
help facilitate right like when we when
we're of service when we work out when
we show up when we're at peace when we
think about ourselves less we're
removing the ego I'm stripping it away
it's a process of excavation
and the opposite is when I'm thinking
about okay
what if this song doesn't work at Radio
what if this you know what if Tick Tock
doesn't you know do the challenge what
if uh you know whatever it is when I'm
future surfing
thinking about the outcome rather than
enjoying the process the process is
where the magic happens
the rest of it I've never for all of the
records that I've ever put out
there has never been a moment of any
calculation that has worked
doesn't work the records that I've been
like oh yeah this is going to be the one
those are the ones with like two million
views on YouTube
and the ones that I'm like you know who
knows those are the ones with you know
that really affected culture that really
like got out there and you know the
world knows these songs
10 11 years later or five years later or
whatever it is I think the intention in
the studio is so important because
even if you know even if I put out a new
album that doesn't stream as as well as
the last one or whatever it is that's
not my metric if I'm if I am basing my
identity around those numbers and those
metrics
um
I will always be disappointed
my bucket will always be half full and
if I'm basing it on what was the
intention
what am I actually trying to get at
the music is going to hit who it hits it
was already written I just have to get
out of the way when I try to control
hang on when I try to play Puppet Master
that's when I become
miserable and um
and I'm not effective at my job
so two questions here they're on that
basis
you know I'm sure people ask you what
your favorite record is whatever I'm not
really interested in that I know it's
like choosing your favorite children or
whatever and they're all different for
various reasons but in terms of the most
important record you think you've ever
recorded the one that you believe has
benefited
um others the world the most
irrespective of performance metrics what
what is that record
it's two records it's um Same Love yeah
and other side interesting and I think
Same Love is the obvious
answer
because it came out at a time
where we as I'll speak for for America
but kind of you know
even more it came out at the time in
America where we were having this
conversation around legalizing gay
marriage where
um there was a shift there's a cultural
shift and
that song became
became something bigger than than me it
became
a move a moment for a movement towards
equality and as a as a songwriter as an
artist as someone that um you know
Prides himself on
on the pen and the in the ways that it
can move spirit
that's the
that's up there that has to be one or
number two the other one is other side
and the other side is a record that not
as many people know but it is one that
it was kind of the first you know it was
the first record I wrote when I got out
of the treatment and it was that I I am
literally not even here right now I'm
just trying to be silent enough in my
own head to just let this magic happen
but it talked about
the disease of addiction for the first
time and I kind of was like
ah I just need to get this out I don't
know I I am an addict and I don't want
to like hide this [__] and I know it's
not cool I know it's not gonna sell more
records I know it's not what anyone
anyone else is talking about I know it's
not what my favorite rappers are talking
about but I am an addict and I have to
be sober
um
and I need to let whoever was listening
me at the time the 2000 fans that I had
I needed to let them know that this is
who I was
and um you know it said that we're only
as sick as our secrets I didn't want to
be sick anymore I just wanted to tell my
truth and that was the record to do it
and what I watched happen after that
I'll never forget people coming to the
shows you know six people 12 people
14 people in recovery coming because
they heard other side and
it changed their life and
I know what that feels like as someone
on the other end of it who's
life
has changed so many times by the music
that I was listening to
and
yeah it's those two those are the ones
I listened to a drug dealer earlier
and um I listened to it but then I
looked at the comment section and it is
like
it's profound it's profound that the
second comment on that video is from of
recovering heroin addict who's crying
while they're watching that video
because it's making them feel heard seen
and understood
um in a really profound way and every
every comment was like that every
comment was
um speaking to like the liberating and
therapeutic impact that someone was
having on you know thousands and
thousands of people it's a really
profound thing it's almost you know
it's a lot isn't it in terms of you know
you talked about those people coming to
a show the seven the ten the twelve
has that ever felt like and this is a
strange word to use but does it has that
ever felt like an emotional weight at
all because you're hearing these stories
I sat with Jordan Peterson in fact and
he talked about how people coming up to
him and telling them about their own
Journeys their own emotional path to
recovery or healing can sometimes feel
like a like an emotional way it's a lot
to carry
I feel the opposite really I feel
I feel connection
it connects me to the art because I'm
not in the same place that I was in 2009
when I wrote that song my life looks
very different
I think when I hear people
say that they removed or they were
transformed or that they felt some
inspiration or you know whatever it is
um for one it's an it's an opportunity
and I think that maybe this is where
Jordan and I differ is that
um
I'm an addict this person coming up to
me is an addict and there's an immediate
connection there that I can't describe I
don't know what it is but it's just like
oh
you got the same oh my God we had the
same thing
how are you doing with with your journey
how are you doing with yours
um and it's not a weight it's more like
ah thank you for you know
the the meet and greet of thank you so
much appreciate it thank you so much
like that's a way that's just going
through the motions the actual moments
of people telling me those things when
I'm like okay let's pause like we don't
need to get through the line so fast
let's you know we'll get to the hotel
when we get to the hotel let me be
present with this person because
this conversation
is changing my life I'm reminded why I
wrote that record in the first place I'm
reminded of the beauty that happens when
we share honestly like those are those
moments where I'm like thank you that's
where I feel like I am the recipient of
the recipient of a gift
um that's coming full circle because
they're reminding me
um of how important it is to
to share honestly regardless of how it
looks regardless of how it's perceived
and I think that so much of the time
there's this
you know well if I tell my truth will I
be an outcast will I be accepted will I
be kicked out of the tribe will I
um
still be a part of we want to be a part
of
and
there's this thing that happens like
what happened with your friend when you
saw him finally when you saw him not is
the alcoholic that was [__] [__] up
in the house or messing up your life or
like why doesn't he just stop at you saw
him and his raw estate
that's his that's raw Humanity right
there and when we demonstrate that when
we can show others that we can be Raw
it just
it inspires
because other people like oh I can tell
my truth too and I'm not gonna get
kicked out
wow
let me show up as my authentic self
quick one as you guys know we're lucky
enough to have blue jeans as a sponsor
and supporter of this podcast for anyone
that doesn't know blue jeans is an
online video conferencing tool that
allows you to have slick fast good
quality online meetings without any of
those glitches that you'd normally find
with other meeting online providers you
know the ones I'm talking about and they
have a new feature called Blue Jeans
basic which I wanted to tell you about
blue jeans basic is essentially a free
version of their top quality video
conferencing and that means that you get
immersive video experiences you get that
super high quality super easy and zero
fuss experience and apart from zero time
limits on meetings and calls it also
comes with High Fidelity audio and video
including Dolby voice they also have
expertise grade security so you can
collaborate with confidence it's so
smooth that it's quite literally changed
the game for myself and my team without
compromising quality at all so if you'd
like to check them out search
bluejeans.com and let me know how you
get on DM me tweet me whatever works for
you
let me know how you find it over the
last couple of how long maybe four
months I've been changing my diet shall
I say many of you have really been
paying attention to this podcast will
know why I've sat here with some
incredible Health experts and one of the
things that's really come through for me
which has caused a big change in my life
is the need for us to have these
superfoods these green Foods these
vegetables and then a company I love so
much and a company I'm an investor in
and then a company that sponsors this
podcast and I'm on the board of recently
announced a new product which absolutely
spoke to exactly where I was in my life
and that is heal and they announced
Daily Greens Daily Greens is a product
that contains 91 superfoods nutrients
and plant-based ingredients which helps
me meet that dietary requirement with
the convenience that hewell always
offers unfortunately it's only currently
available in the US but I hope
pray that it'll be with you guys in the
UK too so if you're in the US check it
out it's an incredible product I've been
having it here in La for the last couple
of weeks and it's a game changer
social media you don't you don't really
do social media do you don't really in
terms of like engaging I heard that
you're not the biggest fan of social
media
ah
well that hurts my feelings because I
try pretty hard well I know I'm just
kidding yeah
um like no I do you know but you're not
out there making you're not out there
every day talking about your life
insurance behind the scenes yeah social
media for me
is part of my job
sometimes I'm great at it sometimes I
mean I'm just this guy I'm like okay
what are we doing on you know social
media now and then it's like Zoop but
outside of work outside of work no I
mean I want to be present I want to be
like
you know it's like my kids show up today
and you know my
videographer is like yo if you can get a
little bit of iPhone footage with the
kids like walking around like that'd be
awesome and I'm like you know asking my
wife five minutes into Norwalk like hey
do you mind getting some footage of us
walking like and I was like never mind
never mind never mind it doesn't matter
like
it doesn't matter what matters is that
I'm with my kids and then I'm being
president and then I'm happy
um and I'm and I'm off my phone because
I've experienced both ways and it's a
balance right like there are times where
I need to be on my phone and I need to
be on social media and I need to be
handling whatever needs to get handled
but
um
no I think it's it's about the
relationship that an individual has with
social media and again it comes back to
intention is the intention for the most
likes for the most engagement for the
most followed like if that's what it is
then there's always going to be a void
there that's looking to be filled and it
can be really toxic and I was talking to
you know a couple a couple guys on on
tour with us and and I you know 20 year
old 21
and just talk you know they're just
constantly analyzing Tick Tock and
trying to figure out why did this post
perform and this one didn't and maybe
it's because we're over in Europe and
the Geo targeting and all of this and
I'm like you guys are 20 like you're on
tour in Europe like go out and have fun
explore like live
outside of tick tock and
when this is all that they've known and
that this in this platform is the reason
why I know he exists and why his songs
have gotten out there it can be really
challenging and I feel for the younger
generation and I feel for the older
generation that's like yo the label's
telling me that I have to do this and I
really don't want to be here at all but
here I am
post
um
there's this there's a spiritual
sickness that can be easily
um
insidiously infiltrate our psyche if
we're just here Non-Stop and and I just
don't want to be
on that point of um you know those 20
year olds that are with you and you're
giving them that advice if you could um
you know you've had this immense career
and you know a lot of people have great
careers but yours has had so many twists
and turns and twists and turns that the
wisdom you've gained from every twist
and turn I believe is pretty profound
that's why I really loved your
conversation with Jay if you were to go
back and be able to have a conversation
now with that young Ben at 14 years old
let's say right before that first
um
drink what advice would you impart on
him
about life
it's tough to say and it's you picked an
interesting time period because you
picked before
and I don't think that I would have
I don't think that I would have warned
that 14 year old maybe I would have I
think that
but I don't think it would have done
anything
you know what I mean like maybe that
conversation would have looked like
bro you're an addict you're never going
to be able to shut this off it's going
to cause warm way more pain than good
but at the same time
I can't discredit the experiences that
I've had that have led me to this table
right here in this moment and if it
wasn't for those mistakes
um
you know I have a different story I have
a different
um Arsenal to pick from in terms of what
moves me creatively and
um again repurposing that that pain
but a lot of that pain
has hurt others has hurt close family
members or my wife or best friends and
um
those moments are hard to deal with I
think
if I could tell my 14 year old self
anything it'd be like bro you're gonna
do what you're gonna do enjoy it
find gratitude
a spiritual practice get outside of your
own head
get into the act of loving and being
there for others and
just don't stop
I think that when I have stopped in my
life when I have let up on
on the gas not just like not stop in
terms of
the work ethic
but stop the spiritual practice that's
the thing that's always
brought me back
it's not the work it's not the amount of
Engagement it's not the algorithm it's
not the YouTube streams it's none of
that what actually
makes you happy and fulfilled find that
thing and push into it as hard as you
can
that's where the magic lives
use the term spiritual practice to
describe what that is in in detail what
what you mean by spiritual practice for
you
well it's looked like many different
things throughout my my time here you
know in moments it's been a meditation
practice uh in moments it's been a yoga
practice and moments it's been uh you
know many 12-step meetings throughout
the week or step work or working with
others but I think it's the art of just
getting outside of oneself and getting
grounded in the moment and serving
others that has been my consistent
consistent point of reference is you
know what
when you feel spiritually sick reach out
to someone else
whether it's picking up the phone or
call that person that you've been
avoiding or whatever just get outside of
your own self do the thing that makes
you uncomfortable push into that because
that's when life all of a sudden
becomes vibrant colors come back it
becomes alive of like oh yes I I turn
this off I stop thinking about me and
what I wanted in the moment and I just
showed up for someone else and I found
that connection I found God in those
moments I found that little piece that
reminded me of who I am just by showing
up for for another
second ago you talked about when you're
talking about other people you said that
one of the hardest things is knowing
that you'd go on to hurt other people
yeah
who did you hurt
I've heard my parents for my wife
probably the most
um
I think anyone that
I was being dishonest to you know
there's this double
it's almost this double life that that
needs to be lived and you know when I
would go off and I'd relapse and I'd you
know I'd lie about it I wouldn't you
know
relapsing is
you know for me has always been a sneaky
thing it's not like I'm like all of a
sudden like hey guys just so everyone
knows I'm high again no this is like
quiet hush
um I'm trying not to get caught and in
those Seasons protecting that
and people are probably like yo what's
going on with them like you know and I'm
lying about that and
it's just a really toxic
spot you know I'm gaslighting my wife
and and you know making her feel crazy I
think that that's probably
if she was here asked what's the hardest
part of being you know in a in a
partnership with an addict it's like
those moments where he made me feel
crazy it's not that I went back to the
drugs necessarily it's that um
I made her feel like she was she was
crazy
and that she was off because she was
even questioning me and again turning
into someone that I'm like that's the
worst version of myself that's the
shittiest version of myself that's
something that in my in my heart I know
to be um
not the way that I want to treat anybody
much less my significant other or my
best friends or my team but here I am
again putting everything to the Wayside
just so I can can continue to use and um
it's a pretty dark place
was there a point where you thought you
might lose her
yeah
yeah I mean
relapse in Coven
you know the beginning of coven
definitely was um
you know she kicked me out of the house
and um I went to stay in my parents
condo and
I remember just uh driving around
aimlessly
like I'm gonna lose my kids
gonna lose his marriage
and I think the thing that
I think that's thing that scares me the
most is
um
if I'm being honest is
not being in my kids lives and
the devastation that that would
potentially and that impact that it
would a divorce would have on them
and
the other flip side of it is I believe
the kids are resilient and that
that pain can be repurposed and that you
know
half of the world is divorced and you
Beauty can come out of it and does all
the time and people end up in much
better situations out of divorce so it's
I'm not against divorce but for me and
my and my kids that was the thing that I
was holding on to was just this like
I want
our family to stay together and the fact
that I can I
it would be because of me it would be
because of my
self-centered
instant gratification Need to Escape not
actually working my 12-step program ass
like that I would be the reason
that this family broke up and I would
have to to hold that and that weight the
idea of that weight
still seems too much to to live with I
know I could do it but in that moment of
that
that last relapse that was definitely a
yeah it was
it was a real scare
into um
look what you're about to lose
for what for this
this doesn't even make you happy it
stopped working
right away it never worked it never
worked for you it never worked it never
worked in the long run even if you had a
good night or two in the big picture
um
you have an allergy
and that allergy is trying to kill you
every time you pick it up
I've read um about a story when you were
in a I think you're in a hotel room or
something and your wife had taken a
pregnancy test and you would you just
relapsed and she was in the toilet and
you heard her crying through the door
yeah and you knew that
you knew that
those weren't happy tears yeah because
she was pregnant yeah
can you take me back to that moment and
just tell me exactly what happened dude
you were in it was a hotel I was there a
house you were at our house okay yeah we
were in our home and
um
yeah it's it's kind of a I mean it's the
truth but it's um
yeah I'll just say it I mean I'm there
I'm high she doesn't know it but she
knows it but you know she hasn't caught
me yet and I just keep denying it and um
you know her period was late went got
her the pregnancy test and I'm just like
begging to a God that I had no
connection with please please
let this be a negative pregnancy test
um
I'm not ready yet I'm not ready to be a
dad I'm not ready to give up the drugs
I'm not ready to give up the drugs and I
remember just like on the carpet
literally like
praying
and then I heard the tears
and I knew what that meant
that she was pregnant
and
I knew that that meant that I needed to
get clean
and it was that moment of like that pull
and I think that that's the hardest part
I haven't really spoke about this I
think that's the hardest part about
the disease of addiction is this pull is
the compulsion and the obsession for
more yet knowing that more is the thing
that is leading to
depression The Rock Bottom the not
wanting to be here anymore but it's this
just that at odds and I
I felt that
inner turmoil of just
I'm not ready to be a dad because I
still want to get high
and I know I need to stop but I am just
not ready yet
and um
sure enough she was pregnant
and
I got clean
and she was pregnant with our first
daughter Sloan
so
you know I think my my reservation is
just like Sloan watching this someday
and being like Oh it's tight so dad was
super high
um on the carpet and didn't really want
me that's not true at all either I mean
I was high and I at the time I didn't
want her but when I got clean it was
like okay let's have this baby like I
want to be a dad I want to be a dad who
um my kids never see loaded that they
don't even know that part of me that
they don't have to be like oh Dad's
dad's high again or Dad's hiding or mom
kicked dad out of the house that they
don't even know that part of my my story
um
that's what I wanted
well if you come to learn about the
Journey of life and and as it relates to
like
and I said a second ago that the ups and
the Downs the ups and the downs but you
persevere and that's really all the
choice we have is to persevere and to
find something meaningful to aim at
today and then we'll get another chance
again tomorrow and we kind of like right
off
yesterday and the day before because
with that side of our control now and
it's about what can I aim at today as
you sit here today what are you aiming
at like the past is the past like we
can't go back and change things it is
what it is it's I think it's important
to be aware of it and to admit it to
ourselves to at least to learn some
wisdom from it but as you sit here today
you're a you know as you woke up this
morning this is today is in play yeah
what are you aiming at today and as we
look off into the next sort of two
decades of your life what
I maybe to a fault don't think about the
future
what I'm thinking about
is here
and then I'm like okay well let's zoom
out from here I have a show tonight I
want to put on a great show we're in
London um it's like 6 000 people sold
out like I want to put on a great show
what is it going to take for me to put
on a great show tonight
um
my family's in town in London like I I
just don't think like that yeah yeah and
I
and I watched my wife who does and other
people who do and it's like I have an
inability
to think a big picture
I have an exceptional ability
at focusing on the thing that is in
front of me
and I believe that it probably has to do
with ADD and the way that my brain works
in the chemistry but it's what it has
created a
um a work ethic and a focus that you
know I can just be in the studio for 14
hours or I can be doing a music video
and editing it and just keep going and
that's how I got good at my craft was
putting in those long long hours where
other people be like all right let's go
outside and I'm like no it's not done
yet let's keep working
um but in terms of the next 20 years I
don't know I don't know I I'm excited to
to Pivot
you know I don't think that you know in
a decade I'm gonna be like you know I
can't wait to play the show tonight I
don't know
you know we'll see what happens but what
I have realized
and and part of this comes from
um you know working on my golf clothing
company bogey boys
which has been so fun such a labor of of
love and to be able to design clothes
and watch people wear them and you know
the the creative process that that has
been particularly in covid
that's not going to be my only pivot
it's just not it doesn't fulfill me in
the same way what does fulfill me with
actual meaning
is
is our youth program called The
Residency in Seattle and thinking about
actually you know getting a permanent
spot
year long with Staffing where we have a
home for the residency that actually
is inspiring to me that has meaning that
has a lasting potential
that's deeper than like what color Polo
is this going to be and I think that
they can coexist because I do enjoy this
as well I love bogey boys I love golf
but for the bigger picture
what do you want your legacy to be
and not for the purpose of ego but like
how do you want
to leave the greatest impact to make the
greatest impact with our precious time
on this Earth we don't have much we
don't know how much we have left it's
finite it could be you know gone
tomorrow what can you hang your hat on
and be like you know what I took a risk
I got uncomfortable
I sacrificed I showed up I worked really
hard
I celebrated the wins I took the losses
on the chin and I kept going
that's the kind of life I want and it's
kind of life I wanted today and it's the
same life I want 20 years
regardless of where that leads me
all those years ago your dad asked you a
question at that family get-together he
said
are you happy
all these years later you're sat in this
table in London
are you happy
I think happiness is fleeting
and happiness comes and goes
I think that what is sustainable is
meaning his purpose
I'm not going to be happy every day
it's gonna go like this in this moment
yes I am happy but
but in general in in my life right now
am I happy I would say absolutely yes
but
there's trials and tribulations through
it all and what I have what I have found
is that those moments of of
of being tested
of
sorrow of
betrayal of
growth all of those turn into
progress if we can use them as medicine
if we can accept them as blessings
rather than this idea this is one thing
I've been thinking about a lot lately is
just this idea of like
victimhood of mentally going to a place
of oh they wronged me or I'm a victim no
this is an opportunity this is a
blessing that has been put in front of
me and how I get to handle it now and
show up
and it becomes toxic in my mind if I'm
thinking of it about what are they doing
to me how could they do this just like
we're talking about earlier it becomes
um medicine when I can show up from a
place of
I might not know why this is happening
but I have faith that I am absolutely at
the right place right now
and I'm going to show up
clean
I'm not gonna Escape
I am going to be my true self
tell the truth even when I don't want to
and
um
and keep it pushing that's what creates
meaning and fulfillment and that is what
I'm after not momentary happiness
there seems to be a real authenticity to
your new album Ben and I think I mean
maybe that's even evidenced in the
choice of the name to some degree
because you've called it after yourself
um after the name that your parents gave
to you and throughout the album I felt a
certain sense of
I was gonna say I don't give a [__]
about like what I'm supposed to be to
some degree because
it feels like all of you as opposed to
just a narrow part of you if that makes
sense I don't know absolutely so like
because and I I say that in part because
I listened to the first record and then
I got like six or seven records down and
it was just like
you hadn't the first record didn't sound
like the sick record it was like a
completely different kind of expression
so I was thinking it's kind of someone
that has kind of just doesn't really
give a [__] about what they're supposed
to yes make and they're making what they
care about maybe that's my assessment of
it
um how accurate was that what was your
thinking going into this and how is this
project different to all of the other
projects you've I I think that you
summed it up beautifully and um
I love to be able to do all of that and
just like walking in the studio and be
like what what is speaking to me today
um
you know maybe it's a dance song from
1984 maybe it's a you know I'm going
through something maybe it's a a pop
song Maybe it's like I want to rap you
know
you know with Primo scratching and it
sounds like it's from the 90s like it's
whatever Direction I want to go is like
I don't want to feel limited like oh but
that's not what you do no I I could do
whatever I want to do
um and you're right in that it's all me
like those are all bits and pieces of me
and I think for a long time and that's
what I've always done kind of so how
does it differ I don't know I feel like
all maybe there's been a little bitco
more cohesion on other albums but for
the most part that's what I've always
done is
those are all
those are all facets of my expression
and um
and I think it's confused people you
know because like it you know I'll have
homies that are like yo you dropped
Heroes and then you came out with this
like you know pop song with the music
video directed by your daughter like
what is going on and I'm like yep that's
what I did but doesn't authenticity
confuse people anyway because Conformity
doesn't convince no you're right
Conformity fits yes Conformity fits
authenticity doesn't no and they're and
they want me to be this version yeah and
you know radio wants me to be this
version and you know this it's like
you're right I mean authenticity
confuses people and and and once people
can box put it in a box
package it
be able to point to it that this is this
this is that
it makes it a lot easier as an artist to
um or as a you know Observer
to judge I don't like it because it's
this yeah versus like oh [__] he did
that but then he did that and I like
that but I would never listen you know
whatever people are trying to figure it
out I'm like I'm just gonna keep making
the music that I've always made and
um again I have a faith now that it
lands where it's supposed to land and
that process has been therapeutic for me
of just detaching from detaching from
the outcome regardless of what it is
just like
just make it because you love it dude
that's all I think that's a super you
know powerful lesson an important one
that I think everyone without maybe
realizing it can actually really relate
to I even have that a lot on this show
where I will have such a diverse range
of guests that on every conversation I
have there's a comment saying like get
back to interviewing CEOs or why like
why is this personal why are you
interviewing Sports people or whatever
and there was maybe a point where I
thought
it crossed my mind maybe they're right
maybe I should just like stay in my Lane
yeah but the authentic me goes I care
about so many [__] things right I
love sports I love businesses I love
music I love psychology so can I just
run the experiment
of being myself yeah and I refer to it
as an experiment because there's a
perceived cost running that experiment
you don't know the outcome are people
just gonna stop listening running that
experiment has been
most importantly okay it's worked but
it's been great for me right as in like
I can show up every day and like my life
regardless of whether people want to
listen I can really enjoy this and
that's how I can run this as a marathon
opposed to as a Sprint right right like
when we can form it's like I've never
seen it be sustainable for my guests
when they're like wearing a mask for too
long
I could do this for the rest of my life
because I'm big myself do you see what I
mean absolutely
um we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest asks a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're leaving it for
and the question that's been left for
you by our previous guest is
there someone from your past that you
should have a conversation with that you
haven't had
if so why haven't you had it and what is
that conversation
hmm that's a great question
as my parents
get older
that there's probably some conversations
there particularly with my dad that I
I go back and forth on having
and uh you know
a relationship that I might want with
him that I think that there's some fear
around maybe he doesn't
desire
with me
and um
it's a tricky one with parents it's a
tricky with family like having
deep conversations around
what our relationship looks like or what
it looked like growing up or whatever
um
you know I'm from a family where you
know you kind of you smile through it I
think there's a reason why I never heard
my parents fight
I think that there is a um
just be happy
don't talk about it just be happy
and uh
that hasn't been my experience on this
Earth and I think that at times it's
challenged them
um
and then at a certain point you're like
Yo dude you're dead 75 years old like
you know he is who he is and but I think
if my dad
my dad passed tomorrow
um
I would probably feel like there was
just did I really make an effort to
connect
um
on the level
that
that I intuitively wanted to
outside of his reaction
to my words I completely relate to that
with my own dad yeah I completely relate
and I don't know why I've never had the
conversation
um
I don't know what it is is it I don't
think he's got the tools I've not got
the tools we've not got the tools right
all three yeah oh yeah all three
um
but you probably do have the tools
interesting because you can have I can
have the tools with my girlfriend that's
what I'm saying well we've like learned
together how to do the tools but then I
look over at my dad and I go
uh We've not figured out how to how to
do this together because there's like
there you know we go through different
there's like a Changing of the Guard
almost it's like our parents
you know my parents were byproducts of
of their parents and these are very
different times in Civilization
and where we have gotten to in terms of
talking about our emotions and and
mental health and being able to process
masculinity or ego or these things you
know going to therapy or going to a
12-step meeting or you know really
working on ourselves like
my dad's never done
any of that internal work because that's
not what men did in his generation and
you know sure there's exceptions but as
a whole
um my dad's generation was different and
I watched the younger generation from
from me
and the way that they're
fluid and love each other and and gender
is a social construct and these walls
are getting torn down and I'm like I'm
trying to keep up with it and you know
I'm having my own moments of just like
wait how does this fit and what what is
this and I feel old all of a sudden and
they're just like don't you get it like
this is all fake and I'm and I'm trying
to you know so I think that going to to
my dad there is a certain level of just
communication about emotions that I'm
really used to that he's not because he
probably never had those conversations
with his dad his dad was like in the war
and had five kids and like just getting
a meal on you know a meal to each one of
those five boys in the house was a
struggle alone much less trying to talk
about how you felt that wasn't part of
the day but if he wasn't gonna respond
then
and you had a chance to say those last
words what would those words be
irrespective of response or impact or
feedback
you know what I've come to the
conclusion of
is that
we're all doing
the best that we can do
my dad's doing the best that he could do
and
instead of me because I have a lot of
friends that
didn't have a dad at all
their dad pieced out you know
and I think it's easy to particularly
when you have kids
you have this idea of
what your parents are going to be like
as grandparents
and my grandparents or my parents are
great grandparents I want them around
more
not even for the child care just because
I think that family is so important I
think that nuclear family is so
important I think that we have
um
you know we we come from like
communities
where
we helped raise children together and
you know
this porch looked out over to this porch
and we had actual tangible
um human connection
and I I think that
I've desired something in my
um in having kids and reflecting on my
own childhood and what that was like
with my parents now that I'm a dad
and I'm like oh I didn't do any of this
with my dad
I didn't do damn what was my life like
oh he you know but instead of looking at
it like
in any way I am a victim because my dad
works so much or you know whatever it
was it's like my dad was amazing he
worked so much and he provided
and he sent my eyes to rehab
and he sent me to college
and he showed up with love and
instead of like the opposite of all of
that like he's not doing this this this
this this I want him to be this this
it's like my dad is who he is and um
it's made me who I am
ensure I desire a closeness that I don't
know if we'll ever get to you know we're
in an open level of just hanging out
being okay with that
um telling him how I really feel
I don't know if that's important
um
but
what's preventing me from having that
conversation is that
it's a hard
it's a hard conversation to have
family is so layered we're not talking
about like a friend I met six years ago
we're talking about this person that
brought me into this world
our DNA the very fabric the
our identity this
it's a lot there it's a lot there and um
I think sometimes I question if
how much do you push other people to get
outside of their comfort zone I know
it's not comfortable it's not
comfortable for me it definitely
wouldn't be comfortable for him
how much do you I mean what's preventing
you from
talking with your dad
at whatever level it is
I think it's probably just as to be
honest I think it's like I'm gonna say
things but I've just not tried in the
way that I should have it's just feeling
like
the bridge to doing that is not there
isn't what I mean by is like
I don't think he's got the tools yeah
and
I don't think I've
got the tools with him yes I would say I
would say exactly the same thing that's
what I mean you know because with my
goal it's funny in Generations we all
seem to be able to do that sideways and
down as you said so like we could you
could probably have those conversations
with your kids and with your kids we do
all the time but as you've said when we
look up at our parents the generation
they came from they didn't do podcasts
like this where they think about their
feelings and emotions and stuff and
mental health and so
they didn't learn the tools and it's
like can you teach an old dog new tools
use on my part because that's what I
asked you the question about regardless
of how they respond yes if it if you
because like my both of our dads aren't
going to live forever and what's going
to live on after they've gone is it the
regret right and I don't want the
regrets I don't want the regret either
so I just wanna I I'm I need to write a
letter also yeah and just send the
[__] letter yeah you know what I mean
um
I guess this is a conversation for
another time because yeah you got a show
tonight at Wembley so
um I'm gonna let you go but um thank you
so much for so many things thank you
first and foremost for creating great
music that's brought joy to our lives
but I think even more important than
that music that has helped people in
such a profound way not everybody does
that Beyond The Views like I think
you've clearly come to learn that views
are one thing and then impact is a
completely different thing and the
impact that I just saw in that one video
drug dealer is
would be profound enough life work for
any one individual just in the comments
section from what I saw beyond that
you've repeated that over and over again
and even on your new album Ben within
the first paragraph of the first song
you're taking me back to your own
struggles which I think is as we've
described that vulnerability you
demonstrate in these conversations in
your interviews and your music is the
doorway to connection and I don't think
you'll ever even see the the extent to
which you've allowed people to feel that
connection through your music through
your art and through these conversations
so that's what I want to thank you for
and it's an honor to meet you and to get
to do this because I'm a fan of your
work I'm a fan of the man and I'm a fan
of of everything you've touched so thank
you so much and thank you so much you're
amazing this is incredible and I really
appreciate you having me you just you
have a light to you that uh
it's very impressive and I get it thank
you Ben
[Music]